>> A stellar surprise
hidden in space.
More than 100 black holes
hiding in our own galaxy.
What could we learn
from this new find?
And what is the
consciousness connection
to this mystery of the galaxy?
This is Gaia News.
[THEME MUSIC]
Scientists were stunned to
find more than 100 black holes
in the Milky Way, about three
times the number of black holes
thought to be in the area.
NASA describes a black hole as
a place in space where gravity
pulls so much that even
light cannot get out.
The gravity is so strong
because matter has been
squeezed into a tiny space.
These black holes are hidden
within a cluster of stars
called Palomar 5, about
80,000 light years from Earth.
Astronomer and Gaia
News contributor
Marc Dantonio on the
significance of this discovery.
>> They didn't expect that there
would be so many young stars
that had blown up and become
supernovae and then left these
black holes behind.
But there are, and so it
means that at one point,
this was a very, very rich
star cluster at some point.
Very, very bright, probably
visible, most likely
visible from galaxies away.
OK, we see these types of
things from other galaxies.
So this was a really
unique opportunity,
and it presents a
unique opportunity
to study these black holes
because they're actually
kind of near each other.
They're not in a cluster,
they're kind of in a stream,
like I said.
As the ongoing star formation
and star death occurred,
it occurred all along this
location in the galaxy
and then this went boom, boom,
boom, boom, boom, boom, boom,
and popped off, each one
leaving behind a black hole.
It's really a good
opportunity to study this.
>> It's not just the
amount of black holes,
but what we can learn from them.
Lead author of the study Mark
Gieles said in a statement,
to understand how
these streams formed,
we need to study one with
a stellar system associated
with it.
Palomar 5 is the
only case, making
it a Rosetta Stone for
understanding stream formation.
And that is why we
studied it in detail.
With this new information,
this Rosetta Stone,
and the possibility of learning
more about this phenomenon,
could we theoretically
prove that black holes
serve as portals or wormholes
to another time or place?
Founder of the Resident Science
Foundation Nassim Haramein.
>> We have found black holes,
and we know that things fall
into black holes, and we don't
know if they reemerge somewhere
else in the parallel universe,
or in another galaxy,
or we don't know.
So black holes themselves
could be thought as evidence
of portals and wormholes.
Certainly, we could
think of it that way.
>> And to some, no matter
what religion or upbringing,
there is a spiritual
aspect to black holes.
As Jesuit religious
brother, physicist,
and director of the Vatican
Observatory, Guy Consolmagno,
wrote in a recent article, "Can
you find God in a black hole?",
where he states, quote, "A
black hole is a perfect example
of something we've believed in
even though we cannot see it
or touch it."
Meantime, columnist Vikram
Zutshi posed the question,
are black holes where the
mystic and the modern meet?
There are many
striking parallels
between Eastern thought
and modern astrophysics,
especially in their
imagining of space, time,
and the birth of the universe.
The universe can surprise
and inspire us every day.
For as Carl Sagan said, quote,
the cosmos is within us.
Some part of our being knows
this is where we came from.
We long to return.
And we can, because
we're made of star stuff.
We are a way for the
universe to know itself.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
>> For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.